#! /bin/bash

echo "War and Peace (pre-reform Russian: Война́ и миръ; post-reform Russian: Война́ и мир, translit. Voyná i mir [vɐjˈna i ˈmʲir]) is a novel by the Russian author Leo Tolstoy, which is regarded as a central work of world literature and one of Tolstoy's finest literary achievements.[1][2][3]

The novel chronicles the history of the French invasion of Russia and the impact of the Napoleonic era on Tsarist society through the stories of five Russian aristocratic families. Portions of an earlier version, titled The Year 1805,[4] were serialized in The Russian Messenger from 1865 to 1867. The novel was first published in its entirety in 1869.[5] Newsweek in 2009 ranked it first in its Top 100 Books.[6] In 2007, Time magazine ranked War and Peace third in its poll of the 10 greatest books of all time while Anna Karenina was ranked first.[7]

Tolstoy said War and Peace is \"not a novel, even less is it a poem, and still less a historical chronicle\". Large sections, especially the later chapters, are a philosophical discussion rather than narrative.[8] Tolstoy also said that the best Russian literature does not conform to standards and hence hesitated to call War and Peace a novel. Instead, he regarded Anna Karenina as his first true novel. According to the Encyclopædia Britannica, \"no single English novel attains the universality of Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace.\"[9]

Contents

    1 Crafting the novel
    2 Realism
    3 Language
    4 Background and historical context
    5 Principal characters in War and Peace
    6 Plot summary
        6.1 Volume One
        6.2 Volume Two
        6.3 Volume Three
        6.4 Volume Four
        6.5 Epilogue in two parts
            6.5.1 First part
            6.5.2 Second part
    7 Reception
    8 English and other translations
        8.1 Full translations into English
        8.2 Comparing translations
    9 Adaptations
        9.1 Film
        9.2 Television
        9.3 Opera
        9.4 Theatre
        9.5 Radio
    10 See also
    11 References
    12 External links

Crafting the novel
Only known color photograph of the author, Leo Tolstoy, taken at his Yasnaya Polyana estate in 1908 (age 79) by Sergey Prokudin-Gorsky.
Tolstoy's notes from the ninth draft of War and Peace, 1864.

War and Peace is perhaps best known as one of the longest novels ever written.[citation needed]

Tolstoy began writing War and Peace in the year that he finally married and settled down at his country estate. The first half of the book was written under the name \"1805\". During the writing of the second half, he read widely and acknowledged Schopenhauer as one of his main inspirations. However, Tolstoy developed his own views of history and the role of the individual within it.[10]

The first draft of the novel was completed in 1863. In 1865, the periodical Russkiy Vestnik (The Russian Messenger) published the first part of this draft under the title 1805 and published more the following year. Tolstoy was dissatisfied with this version, although he allowed several parts of it to be published with a different ending in 1867. He heavily rewrote the entire novel between 1866 and 1869.[5][10] Tolstoy's wife, Sophia Tolstaya, copied as many as seven separate complete manuscripts before Tolstoy considered it again ready for publication.[10] The version that was published in Russkiy Vestnik had a very different ending from the version eventually published under the title War and Peace in 1869. Russians who had read the serialized version were anxious to buy the complete novel, and it sold out almost immediately. The novel was translated almost immediately after publication into many other languages.[citation needed]

It is unknown why Tolstoy changed the name to War and Peace. He may have borrowed the title from the 1861 work of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon: La Guerre et la Paix (\"The War and the Peace\" in French).[4] The title may also be another reference to Titus, described as being a master of \"war and peace\" in The Twelve Caesars, written by Suetonius in 119 CE. The completed novel was then called Voyna i mir (Война и мир in new-style orthography; in English War and Peace).[citation needed]

The 1805 manuscript was re-edited and annotated in Russia in 1983 and since has been translated into English, German, French, Spanish, Dutch, Swedish, Finnish, Albanian, Korean, and Czech. The existence of so many versions make this work one of the best insights into the mental processes of a great novelist.[citation needed]

Tolstoy was instrumental in bringing a new kind of consciousness to the novel. His narrative structure is noted for its \"god-like\" ability to hover over and within events, but also in the way it swiftly and seamlessly portrayed a particular character's point of view. His use of visual detail is often cinematic in scope, using the literary equivalents of panning, wide shots and close-ups. These devices, while not exclusive to Tolstoy, are part of the new style of the novel that arose in the mid-19th century and of which Tolstoy proved himself a master.[11]

The standard Russian text of War and Peace is divided into four books (comprising fifteen parts) and an epilogue in two parts. Roughly the first half is concerned strictly with the fictional characters, whereas the latter parts, as well as the second part of the epilogue, increasingly consist of essays about the nature of war, power, history, and historiography. Tolstoy interspersed these essays into the story in a way that defies previous fictional convention. Certain abridged versions remove these essays entirely, while others, published even during Tolstoy's life, simply moved these essays into an appendix.[citation needed]
Realism

The novel is set 60 years before Tolstoy's day, but he had spoken with people who lived through the 1812 French invasion of Russia. He read all the standard histories available in Russian and French about the Napoleonic Wars and had read letters, journals, autobiographies and biographies of Napoleon and other key players of that era. There are approximately 160 real persons named or referred to in War and Peace.[12]

He worked from primary source materials (interviews and other documents), as well as from history books, philosophy texts and other historical novels.[10] Tolstoy also used a great deal of his own experience in the Crimean War to bring vivid detail and first-hand accounts of how the Russian army was structured.[13]

Tolstoy was critical of standard history, especially military history, in War and Peace. He explains at the start of the novel's third volume his own views on how history ought to be written. His aim was to blur the line between fiction and history, to get closer to the truth, as he states in Volume II.
Language
Cover of War and Peace, Italian translation, 1899.

Although the book is mainly in Russian, significant portions of dialogue are in French. It has been suggested[14] that the use of French is a deliberate literary device, to portray artifice while Russian emerges as a language of sincerity, honesty, and seriousness. It could, however, also simply represent another element of the realistic style in which the book is written, since French was the common language of the Russian aristocracy at the time.[15] In fact, the Russian nobility often knew only enough Russian to command their servants; Julie Karagina for example, is so unfamiliar with her native tongue that she has to take Russian lessons.[citation needed]

The use of French diminishes as the book progresses. It is suggested that this is to demonstrate Russia freeing itself from foreign cultural domination,[14] and to show that a once-friendly nation has turned into an enemy. By midway through the book, several of the Russian aristocracy are anxious to find Russian tutors for themselves.[citation needed]
Background and historical context
In 1812 by the Russian artist Illarion Pryanishnikov

The novel spans the period 1805 to 1820. The era of Catherine the Great was still fresh in the minds of older people. Catherine had made French the language of her royal court.[16] For the next one hundred years, it became a social requirement for members of the Russian nobility to speak French and understand French culture.[16] This historical and cultural context in the aristocracy is reflected in War and Peace. Catherine's grandson, Alexander I, came to the throne in 1801 at the age of 24. In the novel, his mother, Marya Feodorovna, is the most powerful woman in the Russian court.
Principal characters in War and Peace
Main article: List of War and Peace characters
War and Peace simple family tree
War and Peace detailed family tree
Natasha Rostova, a postcard by Elisabeth Bohm

The novel tells the story of five families — the Bezukhovs, the Bolkonskys, the Rostovs, the Kuragins, and the Drubetskoys.

The main characters are:

    Count Pyotr Kirillovich (Pierre) Bezukhov: The central character and often a voice for Tolstoy's own beliefs or struggles. Pierre is the socially awkward illegitimate son of Count Kirill Vladimirovich Bezukhov, who has fathered dozens of illegitimate sons. Educated abroad, Pierre returns to Russia as a misfit. His unexpected inheritance of a large fortune makes him socially desirable.
    Prince Andrei Nikolayevich Bolkonsky: A strong but skeptical, thoughtful and philosophical aide-de-camp in the Napoleonic Wars.
    Prince Nikolai Andreich: The father of Andrei and Maria, the eccentric prince possesses a gruff exterior and displays great insensitivity to the emotional needs of his children. Nevertheless, his harshness often belies hidden depth of feeling.
    Princess Maria Nikolayevna Bolkonskaya: Sister of Prince Andrei, Princess Maria is a pious woman whose father attempted to give her a good education. The caring, nurturing nature of her large eyes in her otherwise plain face are frequently mentioned.
    Count Ilya Andreyevich Rostov: The pater-familias of the Rostov family; hopeless with finances, generous to a fault. As a result the Rostovs never have enough cash, in spite of having many estates.
    Countess Natalya Ilyinichna (Natasha) Rostova: A central character, introduced as \"not pretty but full of life\", romantic, impulsive and highly strung. She is an accomplished singer and dancer.
    Count Nikolai Ilyich (Nikolenka) Rostov: A hussar, the beloved eldest son of the Rostov family.
    Sofia Alexandrovna (Sonya) Rostova: Orphaned cousin of Vera, Nikolai, Natasha, and Petya Rostov.
    Countess Vera Ilyinichna Rostova: Eldest of the Rostov children, she marries the German career soldier, Berg.
    Pyotr Ilyich (Petya) Rostov: Youngest of the Rostov children.
    Prince Vasily Sergeyevich Kuragin: A ruthless man who is determined to marry his children well at any cost.
    Princess Elena Vasilyevna (Hélène) Kuragina: A beautiful and sexually alluring woman who has many affairs, including (it is rumoured) with her brother Anatole.
    Prince Anatole Vasilyevich Kuragin: Hélène's brother, a handsome and amoral pleasure seeker who is secretly married yet tries to elope with Natasha Rostova.
    Prince Ippolit Vasilyevich: The eldest and perhaps most dim-witted of the three Kuragin children.
    Prince Boris Drubetskoy: A poor but aristocratic young man driven by ambition, even at the expense of his friends and benefactors, who marries Julie Karagina for money.
    Princess Anna Mihalovna Drubetskaya: The impoverished mother of Boris, whom she wishes to push up the career ladder.
    Fyodor Ivanovich Dolokhov: A cold, almost psychopathic officer, he ruins Nikolai Rostov by luring him into an outrageous gambling debt.
    Adolf Karlovich Berg: A young Russian officer, who desires to be just like everyone els" | pv -qL 15
